The Joe Rogan experience. Irreversible damage,
the transgender craze seducing our daughters. Boy,
that's a hot buttons object, right? That is a, this is a minefield.
It shouldn't be.
Though. No, it really shouldn't be.
No, it shouldn't be, but,
so I think we should probably establish some things like upfront. Right? Um,
some people surely as adults are transgender. Of course.
Yes, of course. I interviewed a lot of them and we fully support that.
Right. Okay. I have friends.
Who fall into that category.
Your concern is about very young children.
Teenage girls has nothing to do with adults who are transgender.
Okay. Many of whom are amazing people. They, you know,
went through mental health, you know,
therapy and they decided they made this decisions.
They suffered with discomfort in their bodies.
From the time they were young and as adults, they made a decision to transition,
fully support them has nothing to do with my book.
What did, what, what was the motivation to write this book?
And if it's about teenagers, why is there a very young girl on the cover?
Well, the cover.
It looks like a little girl. Right?
But it does. I mean, I, obviously I didn't do the cover, but I think,
I think the cover is very good because I think it's supposed to evoke what we've
lost in our a whole generation. Well, yeah.
She's I assume her uterus infertility is yeah.
Oh, infertility. Yeah. That's what, that's what happens. I mean,
I involved in this, this wasn't a personal issue for me. In fact,
it was an issue originally. I thought I was going to avoid, um,
a reader wrote to me,
I write most often for the wall street journal and a reader wrote to me and she
said, listen, I've tried to get every mainstream journalist to pick this up.
No one will touch it. But my daughter got caught up in this.
All of a sudden she went off to college. All of a sudden with her friends,
she had a lot of mental health issues, anxiety, depression,
and all of a sudden with her group of friends, they all decided they're trans.
And she went on hormones.
And this is happening to parents all across the country, teenage girls,
all of a sudden deciding what their friends,
they're trans wanting surgeries and hormones and getting them.
And at first I thought I don't need this.
And so I tried to get another journalist to take it up a real investigative
reporter. I'm not, I'm an, I'm an opinion journalist usually, you know,
that's what I've done. And I couldn't get someone to take it up.
Because it's such a minefield because.
Yeah, because it's a minefield because for some reason,
the activists who are not representative of transgender
adults that I've met at all,
but the activists had convinced the world that because, you know, they,
they, you know, object to anyone's transition being questioned.
We can't talk about a mental health issue facing teenage girls.
Now I've heard, um,
there's an issue with some teenage girls who are on the spectrum,
who wind up getting sort roped into this idea that that's,
what's wrong with them. Is that one of the things you cover in your book? Yeah.
Yeah.
I, I actually don't deal with that specifically very much.
And the reason is that's a whole book in of itself because a lot of it is true
that a lot of girls who are high functioning, autistic,
and I did interview some experts in autism.
And that's when I realized that's a book of its own,
which is that a lot of girls who are high functioning, autistic, you know,
they tend to fixate and they ha they are particularly susceptible to
fixating on the idea that they might be a boy when it's introduced to them.
So, uh, yeah,
I know exactly what you're talking about and there they are one part of this
phenomenon, but there are big.
So the teenage girl part, so this is you're,
you're talking about teenage girls that are susceptible to influence,
or are you talking about teenage girls that are confused? Like why,
why are there so many teenage girls that are going in this direction? Like,
what do you think is happening?
These are the same girls that would have been anorexic.
They would have been Billy. And they would have been their high anxiety,
very precocious girls, but they don't really fit in.
They come to high school and they don't have friends.
They don't have a click for them. And they're so smart.
And they're so lonely because they're on the internet all the time.
And they're with mom all the time and they don't fit in at school.
And this is a way to exp understand their, just their, their pain,
that they're really feeling they're in pain,
but they decide that their problem is that they're supposed to be a boy.
And the fix is testosterone.
So you heard of this problem,
you knew of people that their children were going through this.
And how long did it take you before you decided to commit to pen to paper on
this? So.
I spent, uh, maybe a month or so,
just hearing the reports of the parents and reading the original study.
There's an original study that the book is, you know, John jumps off from,
which is the Lisa Littman paper at brown university should public health
researcher who looked into this. And she found that there was all of a sudden,
this huge epidemic in America, um, of teenage girls,
deciding they were trans with their friends after social media merging and,
and pushing for hormones and surgeries.
Have you had a conversation about this with someone who's a trans activist that
says, well, maybe what's really going on. I mean,
I'm just taking the argument of it may be what's going on.
Is there are a lot of trans women and there would be more,
or there's a lot of women who would turn trans, become a man.
There would be more, but they'd never had had that door open to them before.
And that maybe there's more trans people than we think.
Amazing. Amazing. So it's a great point. And I thought about it cause I've,
I've, you know, I tried to look, I'm a journalist.
I like to look at ideas in both sides. I didn't have, like,
I did not have a dog in this race. So let me tell you three reasons.
I don't think that's compelling. Number one, when,
when Lisa Littman looked at the prevalence rate,
she found that it's 70 times what we would expect within a friend group,
which means it's highly concentrated in groups of friends,
but there's two other reasons.
So we wouldn't expect that if it were randomly distributed among the population,
but there are two other reasons. I don't think that's right. Number one,
if we're just reverting to normal, now that there's greater society,
societal acceptance, right?
We're just saying that we're just avoiding reverting to a normal base rate of
transgender women.
Where at why are where all the women in their forties and sixties coming out as
trans, they should be coming out. Now's their time now,
is there a moment we should see tons of women in their forties and sixties and
so on coming out as transgender,
but we're not seeing that we're seeing the same population that gets involved in
cutting demonic, possession, witchcraft, anorexia, Ballymun,
convinces themselves. There's a problem. And, and there's one anyway,
there's there's one last reason is that suicide rates are going up.
But if these women who were living under a prior, you know, supposedly these,
all these transgender,
these real transgender people who are living under a more repressive regime and
are now just finding themselves this,
you would think the suicide rate would be going down with greater acceptance.
So when you're saying suicide rates are going up,
you mean suicide rates with teens who turned trans both.
With the rate of trans of suicide among this populate. First of all,
among girls in general is extraordinarily high.
This is just one part of the mental health crisis they're in. And second of all,
we know that the rate that these, these kids,
that these trans identified kids have very high rates of suicide,
suicidal ideation, it's, it's really, you know, an area of real concern.
Well, there's definitely an area of real concern as well with, um, social media.
Did you read Jonathan Heights' book, the coddling of the American mind,
and it was on.
Your show that I really like this light bulb went on when I rewatched
it, because he talked about exactly this,
he connects it to social media and he talked about on your show, the huge rates,
we're seeing an anxiety, depression.
All along these same girls and.
You know,
putting it together with Lisa Littman's research and the other investigation I'd
done.
I think it's really pretty clear that one more manifestation of these girls who
were we know are involved in a lot of cutting and all kinds of self harm.
This is one form of self harm for them.
So there are chill.
So let's essentially say there's young teenagers that are
confused and they're looking for something that makes them
feel whole or something that makes them feel normal or something that gives them
some sort of an escape from this [inaudible] that they suffer from.
And you're thinking that turning trans is one of those
pathways that they gravitate towards,
but it might not necessarily be a good idea for them. Yeah, that's.
Exactly right.
If these girls were transitioning to boys and they were living great lives and
their mental health was great, like it is for so many transgender adults,
I wouldn't have written this book. That's a great story.
Great. For so many transgender adults. Cause even in transgender adults,
the suicide rates very high.
There's no question. And that's, you know, that's a separate issue,
but I do think that I, yeah, I agree. I think that there are,
I personally believe that there are transgender adults who've been helped by
transition, but these girls are not being helped by transition.
Just universally, I think, as a population. Yeah. I mean, that's,
that's what Lisa sta Lisa Littman study showed,
but also through my investigation, you know, I hear from,
I interview a lot of parents. I also interviewed transgender youth and they,
you know, they'll tell you, they're, anxiety's a mess.
Their depression's a mess, transitions, not cheering. These girls,
they drop out of school, they cut off their families.
They're not living a great life.
It's, it's such a strange call, right? I mean, strange.
I don't mean strange in a negative way. I mean, it's,
you're dealing with hormones in a human body. Like you're,
you're taking a woman and you're injecting hormones into her body.
And you're saying that these exogenous hormones are what's going to fix her.
And I never, I never understand that. Like if, uh,
if this is my argument about this, like how do we know,
how do you know that that's, what's going to do it? And when you are doing that,
what damage is being done? So it's one thing.
If someone's a twenty-five year old woman and they say,
I have always wanted to be a man. And I think I'm a man. I think I was,
I think I'm born in the wrong body,
but when you're going through this developmental cycle from
17, 18, 19 20, there is a lot of chaos,
a lot of hormonal chaos. There's a lot of confusion.
I don't think there's anything specifically that you could point to that could
say some sort of an intervention chemically, some sort of a,
if you just step in now and start injecting this body with male hormones is
going to fix all your problems. But yet it's really popular to do that. It's.
Really popular. These girls are getting it on their own diagnosis.
So they're just going in and self-diagnosing nobody questions. It.
We now have informed consent, which means you walk into planned parenthood,
you sign a waiver, you decide you have gender dysphoria.
You walk out that day with testosterone, planned parenthood is doing this.
It's one of the biggest distributors.
So you don't have to have some sort of a long,
some transitional therapy session with.
You can get your breasts removed with no therapist's note.
Whoa.
Yeah. So you could be a confused 18 year old girl and
walk into a planned parenthood. Self-diagnosing with no therapy at all.
And they'll prescribe tech testosterone, and you can get your breast removed.
Absolutely. You sign a form.
You cannot even get your breast removed at planned parenthood.
Though. Sorry. Yeah. You can also.
Get your breast removed from yes. Surgeon, surgeons. Some,
some of them require a therapist note. I interviewed them in my book,
some who do not. And, and you know, there are, you know, both kinds, Jesus.
A big decision, right? That's a decision that you can't really come back from.
What, what did the surge have you talked to about this? What do they think?
They think that obviously we're generalizing, right? So.
They think a couple of things. I mean,
obviously there are a lot of surgeons who refuse to do it.
So I interviewed them as well.
They say you don't destroy the biological function.
Like I didn't become a doctor to destroy someone's biological function for,
you know, something that they've decided they have without even, you know,
any oversight or, but, but the ones who do it say, look,
this population is really desperate for surgery. It's a civil rights issue.
I, you know, if I'm, you know, I'm,
I'm giving them what they w w what will seem to bring them comfort seems to
bring them comfort. The problem is that there's no, like,
follow up to see how their mental health is afterwards. The.
Surgeon is basically a mechanic, right. They just remove the tires.
We'll send you on your way. Yeah. The problem.
Is we're not cars. Right? It's all connected. So unfortunately,
very often the mental health deteriorate. I mean, I talked to one young woman,
Desmond, who's amazing. And she, uh, she decided in high school, she was trans.
She got celebrated everywhere. Her teachers, her therapist told her. Yeah,
you're definitely a man. You're supposed to be a man. Affirmed her everywhere.
She went, she got on testosterone and it caused uterine cramping,
which can happen. Um, it's one of the many bad side effects with testosterone.
She had to have a hysterectomy. So at 21,
she wakes up with a hysterectomy and she realized this whole thing had been a
giant mistake. Her mental health had not improved at all. And this was a huge,
like mistake and path she had gone on. And all of a sudden,
she didn't know what to do. There was no one cheering her on anymore.
Why do you think people get cheered on for this decision?
I think in America,
we have a weakness for anything that gets clogged in civil rights.
And part of that is very noble and good.
Obviously the civil rights movement was extremely important in our country and,
and, and extremely, you know, valuable, um, and valorous. But,
but now anything that gets called a civil rights issue, you can't question.
So I interview parents and they'll tell me they're almost all politically
progressive. Okay. Most of the parents would call me or politically progressive.
And I interviewed almost 5,000 of them now. And they'll tell me, like,
I support LGBTQ, but I really, I'm not sure this is right for my daughter.
Like I don't, I don't think she's really gender dysphoric. She's getting worse.
Like what is going on here? And I'll say to them,
would you take away her binder? You know, binders that compression garment,
they wear it, a flatten, their breasts. And they'll say to me, oh,
I can't do that. I mean, I, you know, I support LGBTQ and whatnot.
And I'll say to her, you know, sometimes I'll say to them,
would you give her cigarettes? Why don't you give her cigarettes? Cause,
cause a binder will deform breast tissue. It can cause rib cracking.
It can cause shortness of breath, you know.
I'm not, I wasn't aware of these binders. So this is something that,
of course it.
Yeah, yeah. Right. So it makes them look like a man.
So it's got a squash and if you're, you know, a big breasted woman,
it's going to squash even harder.
I it's going to really try to flatten you to give you the physique, you know,
the appearance of a male physique,
but it's just an appearance thing or is it so that's just an appearance thing.
They usually 16 year old girls don't usually go straight to top surgery.
They start with a binder. Okay.